
Link of the three open data portals:

Open Data BCN (Barcelona)
'Portal de datos abiertos del Ayuntamiento de Madrid' 
Spanish goverment (Gobierno España)
Chosen one: 'Portal de datos abiertos del Ayuntamiento de Madrid'

Activity: This is dedicated to promoting access to municipal government data and fostering the development of creative tools to engage and serve the citizens of Madrid.
Databases hosted: Nearly 600 datasets and almost 120 APIs.
Organization. The Open Data Portal is structured in four sections:
Home: presents the portal's home page with highlighted featured datasets, links to functionalities and news, and the portal's main indicators.
About Data: offers informative content on open data, terms of use, regulations, latest news, etc.
Data Catalog: contains the list of all published datasets and an API (Application Programming Interface) channel with operations to facilitate direct access to the data.
Collaborate: propose new datasets, consult and comment on proposals, consult examples of reuse, and sign up for the reusers' register to receive news from the portal.
Data types: CSV (Comma-separated values), XLS (Microsoft Office Excel),  XML (Extensible Markup Language), TXT, RDF (Resource Description Framework), SHP (Shapefile), ZIP, JSON (JavaScript Object Notation), and more...
Dataset chosen: Traffic accidents in the City of Madrid

Traffic accidents in the City of Madrid were recorded by the Municipal Police.

One record per person involved in the accident is included.

This portal also offers two sets of data with related information such as:
Statistical data on Municipal Police actions (includes data on attestations/accident reports by district and year).
Traffic accidents involving bicycles. 
Type of data:  CSV, RDF and XLSX

What could you or your company or organization use it for?: With this data, it would be possible to offer a better service on the roads by having information about accidents. Improving the safety of neighbors.

The data would show the areas with the highest number of accidents and where the greatest disturbances are found.